---
date: 2022-06-22
source: "Interior Chinatown"
---

You pulled it off.
    First time ever.
    ...Or so you thought, so close to completing the move but
then, as you land, your foot catching the edge of a plastic
tray with your ma’s pot of oolong steeping inside. The tray now
tracing out its own arc through the air, everything in super-
slow-mo, your mother’s face somehow remaining calm through it
all, the only flicker in her expression one of momentary
concern, as the pot of scalding tea nearly hits you on its way
down. She catches it, or almost does, the bulk of the pot
landing on her palm, which must be impervious to pain, because
she doesn’t yell or cry out, simply takes it, absorbing the
KUNG FU KID
Someday, I’m going to be Bruce Lee.
blow, all of the liquid heat and force and letting no harm come
to your stupid little head.
    Already you can see the red marks forming on her wrist and
forearm, burns that will peel then scar then darken and firm up
into reminders you’ll see years later. After you’ve gone to
bed, you’ll hear her walking up and down the hall, going door
to door asking your neighbors for aloe, but no one has any or
no one has any that they are willing to part with, so she’ll
settle for a small glob of cold toothpaste daubed onto the
spot, left there thick and mint-green. You lie awake, hearing
her come back into the room, bracing yourself for her wrath or
fury or guilt trip, but instead you get something else
entirely. Tenderness. A softening in her eyes. It’s the only
thing worse than anger: advice.
