---
date: 2023-06-18
source: "The Name of the Rose"
---

Salvatore wandered through the world, begging, pilfering, pretending to be ill, entering the temporary
service of some lord, then again taking to the forest or the high road. From the story he told me, I
pictured him among those bands of vagrants that in the years that followed I saw more and more
often roaming about Europe: false monks, charlatans, swindlers, cheats, tramps and tatterdemalions,
lepers and cripples, jugglers, invalid mercenaries, wandering Jews escaped from the infidels with their
spirit broken, lunatics, fugitives under banishment, malefactors with an ear cut off, sodomites, and
along with them ambulant artisans, weavers, tinkers, chair-menders, knife-grinders, basket-weavers,
masons, and also rogues of every stripe, forgers, scoundrels, cardsharps, rascals, bullies, reprobates,
recreants, frauds, hooligans, simoniacal and embezzling canons and priests, people who lived on the
credulity of others, counterfeiters of bulls and papal seals, peddlers of indulgences, false paralytics
who lay at church doors, vagrants fleeing from convents, relic-sellers, pardoners, soothsayers and
fortunetellers, necromancers, healers, bogus alms-seekers, fornicators of every sort, corruptors of
nuns and maidens by deception and violence, simulators of dropsy, epilepsy, hemorrhoids, gout, and
sores, as well as melancholy madness. There were those who put plasters on their bodies to imitate
incurable ulcerations, others who filled their mouths with a blood-colored substance to feign accesses
of consumption, rascals who pretended to be weak in one of their limbs, carrying unnecessary crutches
and imitating the falling sickness, scabies, buboes, swellings, while applying bandages, tincture of
saffron, carrying irons on their hands, their heads swathed, slipping into the churches stinking, and
suddenly fainting in the squares, spitting saliva and popping their eyes, making the nostrils spurt blood
concocted of blackberry juice and vermilion, to wrest food or money from the frightened people who
recalled the church fathersâ€™ exhortations to give alms: Share your bread with the hungry, take the
homeless to your hearth, we visit Christ, we house Christ, we clothe Christ, because as water purges
fire so charity purges our sins.
